The purpose of this study is to observe and analyze the consumer behaviors of the Black Friday customer. The day after Thanksgiving, Black Friday is a term used by the retail industry in the United States that signifies the Christmas holiday shopping season.

Thanks giving Day is on the last Thursday of November; therefore, the holiday shopping season runs from the Friday after Thanksgiving Day and continues until Christmas eve, the day before Christmas. Black Friday is not a national holiday. However, many employees have Thanksgiving Day holidays and the following day, increasing the number of potential shoppers on that Friday. Black Friday is famously known for long lines with customers waiting outdoors in cold weather waiting for the store to open, confusion, and customers' chaos. Once the retail doors open for business, the challenges faced are Heavily crowded stores, limited products available at a reduced price, long lines, and the lack of advertised sale products.
 
Black Friday was originated in Philadelphia around the year 1961. The police described it as the day where there would be heavy pedestrians and vehicular traffic after Thanksgiving Day. Since the 21st century, retailers have been attempts in the US to introduce Black Friday in other countries. Retailers outside the US have promoted black Friday sales to compete with the US retailers in online sales. Black Friday is considered to be the most significant sale that happens in the United States. Black Friday and Cyber Monday combined have a revolutionary history in the shopping industry. However, there have been many changes in the trends and the shoppers. There are many 7 advancements and changes in shopping approaches, and there have also been many factors that influenced the traditional shopping methods. Since this is a digital era, there have been many online shopping activities compared to in-store shopping. There were predictions that the sales might go down during the recent pandemic since the in-store shopping was canceled for safety reasons. However, to our surprise, the end sales figures were nowhere near a loss. 

All this was possible by online shopping. Shoppers could sit at home and have the fun of Black Friday shopping and get the products delivered to their doorstep. Identifying all the data from this sale gives us a better opportunity to formulate a research topic and study it. It enables us to understand the customer perspective and the retailer's perspective and identify the shopping patterns of various age groups and their interest in shopping. It helps us categorize the products sold at a fast pace and the age groups that are purchasing these products. It can also help the retail industry understand what products are more in demand during the sale, predict future sales, and have their inventory ready to cater to their customers efficiently. Purchasing patterns and sales patterns can be formulated and help us analyze and identify the factors influencing the retail industry.
